---
title: Bylaws
menu:
   main:
      parent: community
---
<!---
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at

   https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License. See accompanying LICENSE file.
-->

This document defines the bylaws under which the Apache Hadoop project
operates. It defines the roles and responsibilities of the project, who
may vote, how voting works, how conflicts are resolved, etc.

Hadoop is a project of the [Apache Software
Foundation](https://www.apache.org/foundation/). The foundation holds the
trademark on the name "Hadoop" and copyright on Apache code including
the code in the Hadoop codebase. The [foundation
FAQ](https://www.apache.org/foundation/faq.html) explains the operation
and background of the foundation.

Hadoop is typical of Apache projects in that it operates under a set of
principles, known collectively as the "Apache Way". If you are new to
Apache development, please refer to the [Incubator
project](http://incubator.apache.org) for more information on how Apache
projects operate.

# Roles and Responsibilities

Apache projects define a set of roles with associated rights and
responsibilities. These roles govern what tasks an individual may
perform within the project. The roles are defined in the following
sections

-   **Users**

    The most important participants in the project are people who use
    our software. The majority of our developers start out as users and
    guide their development efforts from the user's perspective.

    Users contribute to the Apache projects by providing feedback to
    developers in the form of bug reports and feature suggestions. As
    well, users participate in the Apache community by helping other
    users on mailing lists and user support forums.

-   **Contributors**

    All of the volunteers who are contributing time, code,
    documentation, or resources to the Hadoop Project. A contributor
    that makes sustained, welcome contributions to the project may be
    invited to become a Committer, though the exact timing of such
    invitations depends on many factors.

-   **Committers**

    The project's Committers are responsible for the project's technical
    management. Committers have access to all subproject subversion
    repositories. Committers may cast binding votes on any technical
    discussion regarding any subproject.

    Committer access is by invitation only and must be approved by
    consensus approval of the active PMC members. A Committer is
    considered emeritus by their own declaration or by not contributing
    in any form to the project for over six months. An emeritus
    committer may request reinstatement of commit access from the PMC.
    Such reinstatement is subject to consensus approval of active PMC
    members.

    Significant, pervasive features are often developed in a speculative
    branch of the repository. The PMC may grant commit rights on the
    branch to its consistent contributors, while the initiative is
    active. Branch committers are responsible for shepherding their
    feature into an active release and do not cast binding votes or
    vetoes in the project.

    All Apache committers are required to have a signed Contributor
    License Agreement (CLA) on file with the Apache Software Foundation.
    There is a [Committer
    FAQ](https://www.apache.org/dev/committers.html) which provides more
    details on the requirements for Committers

    A committer who makes a sustained contribution to the project may be
    invited to become a member of the PMC. The form of contribution is
    not limited to code. It can also include code review, helping out
    users on the mailing lists, documentation, testing, etc.

-   **Release Manager**

    A Release Manager (RM) is a committer who volunteers to produce a
    Release Candidate according to
    [HowToRelease](https://wiki.apache.org/hadoop/HowToRelease). The RM
    shall publish a Release Plan on the *common-dev@* list stating the
    branch from which they intend to make a Release Candidate, at least
    one week before they do so. The RM is responsible for building
    consensus around the content of the Release Candidate, in order to
    achieve a successful Product Release vote.

-   **Project Management Committee**

    The Project Management Committee (PMC) for Apache Hadoop was created
    by the Apache Board in January 2008 when Hadoop moved out of Lucene
    and became a top level project at Apache. The PMC is responsible to
    the board and the ASF for the management and oversight of the Apache
    Hadoop codebase. The responsibilities of the PMC include

    -   Deciding what is distributed as products of the Apache Hadoop
        project. In particular all releases must be approved by the PMC
    -   Maintaining the project's shared resources, including the
        codebase repository, mailing lists, websites.
    -   Speaking on behalf of the project.
    -   Resolving license disputes regarding products of the project
    -   Nominating new PMC members and committers
    -   Maintaining these bylaws and other guidelines of the project

    Membership of the PMC is by invitation only and must be approved by
    a consensus approval of active PMC members. A PMC member is
    considered "emeritus" by their own declaration or by not
    contributing in any form to the project for over six months. An
    emeritus member may request reinstatement to the PMC. Such
    reinstatement is subject to consensus approval of the active PMC
    members.

    The chair of the PMC is appointed by the ASF board. The chair is an
    office holder of the Apache Software Foundation (Vice President,
    Apache Hadoop) and has primary responsibility to the board for the
    management of the projects within the scope of the Hadoop PMC. The
    chair reports to the board quarterly on developments within the
    Hadoop project.

    The chair of the PMC is rotated annually. When the chair is rotated
    or if the current chair of the PMC resigns, the PMC votes to
    recommend a new chair using Single Transferable Vote (STV) voting.
    See https://wiki.apache.org/general/BoardVoting for specifics. The
    decision must be ratified by the Apache board.


# Decision Making

Within the Hadoop project, different types of decisions require
different forms of approval. For example, the [previous
section](#Roles+and+Responsibilities) describes several decisions which
require "consensus approval" approval. This section defines how voting
is performed, the types of approvals, and which types of decision
require which type of approval.

-   **Voting**

    Decisions regarding the project are made by votes on the primary
    project development mailing list (general@hadoop.apache.org). Where
    necessary, PMC voting may take place on the private Hadoop PMC
    mailing list. Votes are clearly indicated by subject line starting
    with \[VOTE\]. Votes may contain multiple items for approval and
    these should be clearly separated. Voting is carried out by replying
    to the vote mail. Voting may take four flavors

    -   **+1** "Yes," "Agree," or "the action should be performed." In
        general, this vote also indicates a willingness on the behalf of
        the voter in "making it happen"
    -   **+0** This vote indicates a willingness for the action under
        consideration to go ahead. The voter, however will not be able
        to help.
    -   **-0** This vote indicates that the voter does not, in general,
        agree with the proposed action but is not concerned enough to
        prevent the action going ahead.
    -   **-1** This is a negative vote. On issues where consensus is
        required, this vote counts as a **veto**. All vetoes must
        contain an explanation of why the veto is appropriate. Vetoes
        with no explanation are void. It may also be appropriate for a
        -1 vote to include an alternative course of action.

    All participants in the Hadoop project are encouraged to show their
    agreement with or against a particular action by voting. For
    technical decisions, only the votes of active committers are
    binding. Non binding votes are still useful for those with binding
    votes to understand the perception of an action in the wider Hadoop
    community. For PMC decisions, only the votes of PMC members are
    binding.

    Voting can also be applied to changes made to the Hadoop codebase.
    These typically take the form of a veto (-1) in reply to the commit
    message sent when the commit is made.

-   **Approvals**

    These are the types of approvals that can be sought. Different
    actions require different types of approvals

    -   **Consensus Approval -** Consensus approval requires 3 binding
        +1 votes and no binding vetoes.
    -   **Lazy Consensus -** Lazy consensus requires no -1 votes
        ('silence gives assent').
    -   **Lazy Majority -** A lazy majority vote requires 3 binding +1
        votes and more binding +1 votes than -1 votes.
    -   **Lazy 2/3 Majority -** Lazy 2/3 majority votes requires at
        least 3 votes and twice as many +1 votes as -1 votes.

-   **Vetoes**

    A valid, binding veto cannot be overruled. If a veto is cast, it
    must be accompanied by a valid reason explaining the reasons for the
    veto. The validity of a veto, if challenged, can be confirmed by
    anyone who has a binding vote. This does not necessarily signify
    agreement with the veto - merely that the veto is valid.

    If you disagree with a valid veto, you must lobby the person casting
    the veto to withdraw their veto. If a veto is not withdrawn, any
    action that has been vetoed must be reversed in a timely manner.

-   **Actions**

    This section describes the various actions which are undertaken
    within the project, the corresponding approval required for that
    action and those who have binding votes over the action.

    -   **Code Change**

        A change made to a codebase of the project and committed by a
        committer. This includes source code, documentation, website
        content, etc.

        Consensus approval of active committers, but with a minimum of
        one +1. The code can be committed after the first +1, unless the
        code change represents a merge from a branch, in which case
        three +1s are required.

    -   **Product Release**

        When a release of one of the project's products is ready, a vote
        is required to accept the release as an official release of the
        project.

        Lazy Majority of active PMC members

    -   **Adoption of New Codebase**

        When the codebase for an existing, released product is to be
        replaced with an alternative codebase. If such a vote fails to
        gain approval, the existing code base will continue.

        This also covers the creation of new sub-projects within the
        project

        Lazy 2/3 majority of PMC members

    -   **New Branch Committer**

        When a branch committer is proposed for the PMC

        Lazy consensus of active PMC members

    -   **New Committer**

        When a new committer is proposed for the project

        Consensus approval of active PMC members

    -   **New PMC Member**

        When a committer is proposed for the PMC

        Consensus approval of active PMC members

    -   **Branch Committer Removal**

        When removal of commit privileges is sought **or** when the
        branch is merged to the mainline

        Lazy 2/3 majority of active PMC members

    -   **Committer Removal**

        When removal of commit privileges is sought. Note: Such actions
        will also be referred to the ASF board by the PMC chair

        Lazy 2/3 majority of active PMC members (excluding the committer
        in question if a member of the PMC).

    -   **PMC Member Removal**

        When removal of a PMC member is sought. Note: Such actions will
        also be referred to the ASF board by the PMC chair.

        Lazy 2/3 majority of active PMC members (excluding the member in
        question)

    -   **Modifying Bylaws**

        Modifying this document.

        Lazy majority of active PMC members

-   **Voting Timeframes**

    Votes are open for a period of 7 days to allow all active voters
    time to consider the vote. Votes relating to code changes are not
    subject to a strict timetable but should be made as timely as
    possible.

    -   **Product Release - Vote Timeframe**

        Release votes, alone, run for a period of 5 days. All other
        votes are subject to the above timeframe of 7 days.

</div>
