src/mailing_lists.md, before:

---
title: Hadoop Mailing Lists
menu:
   main:
      name: "Mailing lists"
      parent: "community"
---
<!---
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License. See accompanying LICENSE file.
-->

## User

The user@ mailing list is the preferred mailing list for end-user
questions and discussion.

Please use the specific module's -dev@ mailing list to address developers on a specific technical question.
The Hadoop user mailing list is : <user@hadoop.apache.org>.

-   [Subscribe to List](mailto:user-subscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Unsubscribe from List](mailto:user-unsubscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/hadoop-user/)

In order to post to the list, it is necessary to first subscribe to it.

## Security

The security mailing list is a private list for discussion of potential
security vulnerabilities issues. Please post potential security
vulnerabilities to this list so that they may be investigated and fixed
before the vulnerabilities is published.

This mailing list is **NOT** for end-user questions and discussion on
security. Please use the user mailing list for such issues.
The Hadoop security mailing list is : <security@hadoop.apache.org>.

In order to post to the list, it is **NOT** necessary to first subscribe
to it.

## General

This mailing list is **NOT** for end-user questions and discussion.
Please use the user mailing list for such issues.
The general mailing list is for announcements and project management.
All Apache Hadoop releases are also announced on this list.

The Hadoop general mailing list is : <general@hadoop.apache.org>.

-   [Subscribe to List](mailto:general-subscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Unsubscribe from
    List](mailto:general-unsubscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/hadoop-general/)

In order to post to the list, it is necessary to first subscribe to it.

## Common

### Developers
If you'd like to contribute to Hadoop Common, please subscribe to the
Hadoop developer mailing list.

The Hadoop Common developer mailing list is:
<common-dev@hadoop.apache.org>.

-   [Subscribe to List](mailto:common-dev-subscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Unsubscribe from
    List](mailto:common-dev-unsubscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/hadoop-common-dev/)

### Commits

If you'd like to see changes made in the Hadoop Common [version control
system](version_control.html), please subscribe to the Hadoop Common
commits mailing list.

The Hadoop Common commits mailing list is:
<common-commits@hadoop.apache.org>.

-   [Subscribe to
    List](mailto:common-commits-subscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Unsubscribe from
    List](mailto:common-commits-unsubscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/hadoop-common-commits/)


### Issues

If you'd like to see changes made in the Hadoop Common [issue tracking
system](issue_tracking.html), please subscribe to the Hadoop Common
issues mailing list.

The Hadoop Common issues mailing list is:
<common-issues@hadoop.apache.org>.

-   [Subscribe to
    List](mailto:common-issues-subscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Unsubscribe from
    List](mailto:common-issues-unsubscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/hadoop-common-issues/)


## HDFS

### Developers

If you'd like to contribute to HDFS, please subscribe to the HDFS
developer mailing list.

The HDFS developer mailing list is: <hdfs-dev@hadoop.apache.org>.

-   [Subscribe to List](mailto:hdfs-dev-subscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Unsubscribe from
    List](mailto:hdfs-dev-unsubscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/hadoop-hdfs-dev/)


### Commits

If you'd like to see changes made in the HDFS [version control
system](version_control.html), please subscribe to the HDFS commits
mailing list.

The HDFS commits mailing list is: <hdfs-commits@hadoop.apache.org>.

-   [Subscribe to List](mailto:hdfs-commits-subscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Unsubscribe from
    List](mailto:hdfs-commits-unsubscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/hadoop-hdfs-commits/)


### Issues

If you'd like to see changes made in the Hadoop HDFS [issue tracking
system](issue_tracking.html), please subscribe to the Hadoop Hdfs issues
mailing list.

The Hadoop HDFS issues mailing list is: <hdfs-issues@hadoop.apache.org>.

-   [Subscribe to List](mailto:hdfs-issues-subscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Unsubscribe from
    List](mailto:hdfs-issues-unsubscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/hadoop-hdfs-issues/)

## YARN

### Developers

If you'd like to contribute to YARN, please subscribe to the YARN
developer mailing list.

The YARN developer mailing list is: <yarn-dev@hadoop.apache.org>.

-   [Subscribe to List](mailto:yarn-dev-subscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Unsubscribe from
    List](mailto:yarn-dev-unsubscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/hadoop-yarn-dev/)


### Commits

If you'd like to see changes made in the YARN [version control
system](version_control.html), please subscribe to the YARN commits
mailing list.

The YARN commits mailing list is: <yarn-commits@hadoop.apache.org>.

-   [Subscribe to List](mailto:yarn-commits-subscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Unsubscribe from
    List](mailto:yarn-commits-unsubscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/hadoop-yarn-commits/)

### Issues

If you'd like to see changes made in the Hadoop YARN [issue tracking
system](issue_tracking.html), please subscribe to the Hadoop Yarn issues
mailing list.

The Hadoop YARN issues mailing list is: <yarn-issues@hadoop.apache.org>.

-   [Subscribe to List](mailto:yarn-issues-subscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Unsubscribe from
    List](mailto:yarn-issues-unsubscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/hadoop-yarn-issues/)

## MapReduce

### Developers

If you'd like to contribute to Hadoop MapReduce, please subscribe to the
Hadoop developer mailing list.

The Hadoop MapReduce developer mailing list is:
<mapreduce-dev@hadoop.apache.org>.

-   [Subscribe to
    List](mailto:mapreduce-dev-subscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Unsubscribe from
    List](mailto:mapreduce-dev-unsubscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/hadoop-mapreduce-dev/)


### Commits

If you'd like to see changes made in the Hadoop MapReduce [version
control system](version_control.html), please subscribe to the Hadoop
MapReduce commits mailing list.

The Hadoop MapReduce commits mailing list is:
<mapreduce-commits@hadoop.apache.org>.

-   [Subscribe to
    List](mailto:mapreduce-commits-subscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Unsubscribe from
    List](mailto:mapreduce-commits-unsubscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/hadoop-mapreduce-commits/)

### Issues

If you'd like to see changes made in the Hadoop MapReduce [issue
tracking system](issue_tracking.html), please subscribe to the Hadoop
MapReduce issues mailing list.

The Hadoop MapReduce issues mailing list is:
<mapreduce-issues@hadoop.apache.org>.

-   [Subscribe to
    List](mailto:mapreduce-issues-subscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Unsubscribe from
    List](mailto:mapreduce-issues-unsubscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/hadoop-mapreduce-issues/)

Commit message:

HADOOP-15878. Website should have a list of CVEs w/impacted versions and guidance. Contributed by Sean Busbey.

src/mailing_lists.md, after:

---
title: Hadoop Mailing Lists
menu:
   main:
      name: "Mailing lists"
      parent: "community"
---
<!---
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License. See accompanying LICENSE file.
-->

## User

The user@ mailing list is the preferred mailing list for end-user
questions and discussion.

Please use the specific module's -dev@ mailing list to address developers on a specific technical question.
The Hadoop user mailing list is : <user@hadoop.apache.org>.

-   [Subscribe to List](mailto:user-subscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Unsubscribe from List](mailto:user-unsubscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/hadoop-user/)

In order to post to the list, it is necessary to first subscribe to it.

## Security

The security mailing list is a private list for discussion of potential
security vulnerabilities issues. Please post potential security
vulnerabilities to this list so that they may be investigated and fixed
before the vulnerabilities is published.

This mailing list is **NOT** for end-user questions and discussion on
security. Please use the user mailing list for such issues.
The Hadoop security mailing list is : <security@hadoop.apache.org>.

In order to post to the list, it is **NOT** necessary to first subscribe
to it.

For information on published vulnerabilities please see our [CVE list](cve_list.html).

## General

This mailing list is **NOT** for end-user questions and discussion.
Please use the user mailing list for such issues.
The general mailing list is for announcements and project management.
All Apache Hadoop releases are also announced on this list.

The Hadoop general mailing list is : <general@hadoop.apache.org>.

-   [Subscribe to List](mailto:general-subscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Unsubscribe from
    List](mailto:general-unsubscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/hadoop-general/)

In order to post to the list, it is necessary to first subscribe to it.

## Common

### Developers
If you'd like to contribute to Hadoop Common, please subscribe to the
Hadoop developer mailing list.

The Hadoop Common developer mailing list is:
<common-dev@hadoop.apache.org>.

-   [Subscribe to List](mailto:common-dev-subscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Unsubscribe from
    List](mailto:common-dev-unsubscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/hadoop-common-dev/)

### Commits

If you'd like to see changes made in the Hadoop Common [version control
system](version_control.html), please subscribe to the Hadoop Common
commits mailing list.

The Hadoop Common commits mailing list is:
<common-commits@hadoop.apache.org>.

-   [Subscribe to
    List](mailto:common-commits-subscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Unsubscribe from
    List](mailto:common-commits-unsubscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/hadoop-common-commits/)


### Issues

If you'd like to see changes made in the Hadoop Common [issue tracking
system](issue_tracking.html), please subscribe to the Hadoop Common
issues mailing list.

The Hadoop Common issues mailing list is:
<common-issues@hadoop.apache.org>.

-   [Subscribe to
    List](mailto:common-issues-subscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Unsubscribe from
    List](mailto:common-issues-unsubscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/hadoop-common-issues/)


## HDFS

### Developers

If you'd like to contribute to HDFS, please subscribe to the HDFS
developer mailing list.

The HDFS developer mailing list is: <hdfs-dev@hadoop.apache.org>.

-   [Subscribe to List](mailto:hdfs-dev-subscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Unsubscribe from
    List](mailto:hdfs-dev-unsubscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/hadoop-hdfs-dev/)


### Commits

If you'd like to see changes made in the HDFS [version control
system](version_control.html), please subscribe to the HDFS commits
mailing list.

The HDFS commits mailing list is: <hdfs-commits@hadoop.apache.org>.

-   [Subscribe to List](mailto:hdfs-commits-subscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Unsubscribe from
    List](mailto:hdfs-commits-unsubscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/hadoop-hdfs-commits/)


### Issues

If you'd like to see changes made in the Hadoop HDFS [issue tracking
system](issue_tracking.html), please subscribe to the Hadoop Hdfs issues
mailing list.

The Hadoop HDFS issues mailing list is: <hdfs-issues@hadoop.apache.org>.

-   [Subscribe to List](mailto:hdfs-issues-subscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Unsubscribe from
    List](mailto:hdfs-issues-unsubscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/hadoop-hdfs-issues/)

## YARN

### Developers

If you'd like to contribute to YARN, please subscribe to the YARN
developer mailing list.

The YARN developer mailing list is: <yarn-dev@hadoop.apache.org>.

-   [Subscribe to List](mailto:yarn-dev-subscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Unsubscribe from
    List](mailto:yarn-dev-unsubscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/hadoop-yarn-dev/)


### Commits

If you'd like to see changes made in the YARN [version control
system](version_control.html), please subscribe to the YARN commits
mailing list.

The YARN commits mailing list is: <yarn-commits@hadoop.apache.org>.

-   [Subscribe to List](mailto:yarn-commits-subscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Unsubscribe from
    List](mailto:yarn-commits-unsubscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/hadoop-yarn-commits/)

### Issues

If you'd like to see changes made in the Hadoop YARN [issue tracking
system](issue_tracking.html), please subscribe to the Hadoop Yarn issues
mailing list.

The Hadoop YARN issues mailing list is: <yarn-issues@hadoop.apache.org>.

-   [Subscribe to List](mailto:yarn-issues-subscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Unsubscribe from
    List](mailto:yarn-issues-unsubscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/hadoop-yarn-issues/)

## MapReduce

### Developers

If you'd like to contribute to Hadoop MapReduce, please subscribe to the
Hadoop developer mailing list.

The Hadoop MapReduce developer mailing list is:
<mapreduce-dev@hadoop.apache.org>.

-   [Subscribe to
    List](mailto:mapreduce-dev-subscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Unsubscribe from
    List](mailto:mapreduce-dev-unsubscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/hadoop-mapreduce-dev/)


### Commits

If you'd like to see changes made in the Hadoop MapReduce [version
control system](version_control.html), please subscribe to the Hadoop
MapReduce commits mailing list.

The Hadoop MapReduce commits mailing list is:
<mapreduce-commits@hadoop.apache.org>.

-   [Subscribe to
    List](mailto:mapreduce-commits-subscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Unsubscribe from
    List](mailto:mapreduce-commits-unsubscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/hadoop-mapreduce-commits/)

### Issues

If you'd like to see changes made in the Hadoop MapReduce [issue
tracking system](issue_tracking.html), please subscribe to the Hadoop
MapReduce issues mailing list.

The Hadoop MapReduce issues mailing list is:
<mapreduce-issues@hadoop.apache.org>.

-   [Subscribe to
    List](mailto:mapreduce-issues-subscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Unsubscribe from
    List](mailto:mapreduce-issues-unsubscribe@hadoop.apache.org)
-   [Archives](http://mail-archives.apache.org/mod_mbox/hadoop-mapreduce-issues/)
