src/related.md, before:

---
title: Related projects
---
<!---
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License. See accompanying LICENSE file.
-->

Other Hadoop-related projects at Apache include:

-   [**Ambari™**](https://ambari.apache.org): A web-based tool for provisioning,
    managing, and monitoring Apache Hadoop clusters which includes
    support for Hadoop HDFS, Hadoop MapReduce, Hive, HCatalog, HBase,
    ZooKeeper, Oozie, Pig and Sqoop. Ambari also provides a dashboard
    for viewing cluster health such as heatmaps and ability to view
    MapReduce, Pig and Hive applications visually alongwith features to
    diagnose their performance characteristics in a user-friendly
    manner.
-   [**Avro™**](https://avro.apache.org): A data serialization system.
-   [**Cassandra™**](https://cassandra.apache.org/): A scalable multi-master database
    with no single points of failure.
-   [**Chukwa™**](https://chukwa.apache.org/): A data collection system for managing
    large distributed systems.
-   [**HBase™**](https://hbase.apache.org/): A scalable, distributed database that
    supports structured data storage for large tables.
-   [**Hive™**](https://hive.apache.org/): A data warehouse infrastructure that provides
    data summarization and ad hoc querying.
-   [**Mahout™**](https://mahout.apache.org/): A Scalable machine learning and data
    mining library.
-   [**Pig™**](https://pig.apache.org): A high-level data-flow language and execution
    framework for parallel computation.
-   [**Spark™**](https://spark.apache.org): A fast and general compute engine for
    Hadoop data. Spark provides a simple and expressive programming
    model that supports a wide range of applications, including ETL,
    machine learning, stream processing, and graph computation.
-   [**Tez™**](https://tez.apache.org): A generalized data-flow programming framework,
    built on Hadoop YARN, which provides a powerful and flexible engine
    to execute an arbitrary DAG of tasks to process data for both batch
    and interactive use-cases. Tez is being adopted by Hive™, Pig™ and
    other frameworks in the Hadoop ecosystem, and also by other
    commercial software (e.g. ETL tools), to replace Hadoop™ MapReduce
    as the underlying execution engine.
-   [**ZooKeeper™**](https://zookeeper.apache.org): A high-performance coordination
    service for distributed applications.

Commit message:

HADOOP-16809. Stripping Submarine site from Hadoop site (#18)

src/related.md, after:

---
title: Related projects
---
<!---
  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
  You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
  limitations under the License. See accompanying LICENSE file.
-->

Other Hadoop-related projects at Apache include:

-   [**Ambari™**](https://ambari.apache.org): A web-based tool for provisioning,
    managing, and monitoring Apache Hadoop clusters which includes
    support for Hadoop HDFS, Hadoop MapReduce, Hive, HCatalog, HBase,
    ZooKeeper, Oozie, Pig and Sqoop. Ambari also provides a dashboard
    for viewing cluster health such as heatmaps and ability to view
    MapReduce, Pig and Hive applications visually alongwith features to
    diagnose their performance characteristics in a user-friendly
    manner.
-   [**Avro™**](https://avro.apache.org): A data serialization system.
-   [**Cassandra™**](https://cassandra.apache.org/): A scalable multi-master database
    with no single points of failure.
-   [**Chukwa™**](https://chukwa.apache.org/): A data collection system for managing
    large distributed systems.
-   [**HBase™**](https://hbase.apache.org/): A scalable, distributed database that
    supports structured data storage for large tables.
-   [**Hive™**](https://hive.apache.org/): A data warehouse infrastructure that provides
    data summarization and ad hoc querying.
-   [**Mahout™**](https://mahout.apache.org/): A Scalable machine learning and data
    mining library.
-   [**Pig™**](https://pig.apache.org): A high-level data-flow language and execution
    framework for parallel computation.
-   [**Spark™**](https://spark.apache.org): A fast and general compute engine for
    Hadoop data. Spark provides a simple and expressive programming
    model that supports a wide range of applications, including ETL,
    machine learning, stream processing, and graph computation.
-   [**Submarine**](https://submarine.apache.org): A unified AI platform which allows 
    engineers and data scientists to run Machine Learning and Deep Learning workload in 
    distributed cluster.
-   [**Tez™**](https://tez.apache.org): A generalized data-flow programming framework,
    built on Hadoop YARN, which provides a powerful and flexible engine
    to execute an arbitrary DAG of tasks to process data for both batch
    and interactive use-cases. Tez is being adopted by Hive™, Pig™ and
    other frameworks in the Hadoop ecosystem, and also by other
    commercial software (e.g. ETL tools), to replace Hadoop™ MapReduce
    as the underlying execution engine.
-   [**ZooKeeper™**](https://zookeeper.apache.org): A high-performance coordination
    service for distributed applications.
